Project Introduction
================
2019-05-10 01:01:01

As part of the Capstone project of the Master of Data Science program at
UBC, we are studying how people use Git. Git is a Version Control System
used to record how files change over time. Many people use Git for
tracking individual work and as a tool for collaboration. However, users
ranging from novices to experts have argued that the tool is not user
friendly and needs to be improved. Some alternative approaches have been
created to deal with these issues. For example, Gitless is a tool that
abstracts Git to a subset of the commands with aliases. Other tools have
been made that let the user use more secure click-and-drop interfaces to
stay within basic behavior. However, no one knows for sure what would
work best as an alternative because no one has collected the data and
analyzed what is currently being done. This is where our project comes
in.

We have a hypothesis that there are common Git workflows, and these
workflows account for a large fraction of everyday use. RStudio is
interested in developing a new tool for Git users that supports these
common workflows, and only these workflows. Our project aims to identify
these workflows with the eventual goal of providing recommendations for
what features should and should not be included in an easy-to-use
alternative to Git.

There are two main questions we are trying to understand:

  - What are the Git workflow patterns that are being used most widely?
    With this question we want to see if we can tell whether or not
    users follow suggested workflows such as GitFlow or if they follow
    other workflows that are more intuitive for them.

  - What are the patterns that, while possible to perform using Git, are
    not being used widely? This question will enable us to understand
    how different workflows are used in different contexts.

By answering these two questions, we will gain insights that will enable
the development of a new tool that improves and consolidates workflows
for users of Version Control Systems.
